Agents do better work with better context. Notes is a project knowledge vault made of ordinary Markdown — and it feeds straight into the fleet.
These are plain Markdown files on disk — the source of truth. Asylum's database stores only the vault choice and note attachments, never the note bodies. Your notes stay readable, diffable, and portable.
Every project starts with a private vault only you see. From the toolbar you can switch to the repository's notes folder, so the team can version notes alongside the code.
Switching copies missing Markdown into the target and never deletes the source. If a file already exists there, the conflict is kept and reported — never overwritten.
New notes can start from a template. Asylum ships a few shapes — task, decision, investigation, retrospective — so recurring documents get a consistent skeleton.
A note can open with a YAML frontmatter block, shown in the UI as editable properties — a title, a type, tags.
Tags work in the frontmatter or inline in the body with a hash. Click a tag and the vault filters to notes carrying it.
Type double square brackets to link another note. Links resolve by title, file stem, or path, and you can add an alias after a pipe.
The Links pane shows a note's outgoing links and its backlinks — every note that links to it — so the vault becomes a navigable web. Rename a note and the incoming links update across the whole vault automatically. Links never rot.
In preview it renders richly — callouts, Mermaid diagrams, syntax-highlighted code — and clicking a link opens the target inside Notes.
Here's where the vault earns its place. Notes aren't just documentation — they're context you hand to agents. Attach a note to a task.
A note attached to a task is inherited by every fan-out run it generates, and its Markdown is appended to the launch prompt. So a design note or a spec becomes part of what every racing agent reads.
You can also send an exact editor selection from a note to a run. A live, stdin-capable agent gets it immediately; a finished run starts a new attempt with it.
And it runs both ways. When checks finish or a PR is created, Asylum writes those links back into the attached notes. Over time a task note accumulates the whole trail — prompt, runs, checks, and the PR that landed.
One last thing: project Search queries notes, files, task prompts, run metadata, and terminal transcripts together. Next: connecting the fleet to GitHub and Linear.
Ticking the same set of agents for every task gets old fast. A layout is a named fan-out preset — a fixed set of agents, and an optional concurrency cap, that you pick in one gesture.
A layout is data, not a keybinding. It answers one question: which agents race this task, and how many at a time?
Out of the box you get three. Duel — a fast head-to-head, claude-code versus codex. Triad — three takes on one prompt, adding aider. And swarm — a wide net across five agents, but only three running at once.
Pick duel and dispatch. Two runs, no ticking boxes — the same task shape re-run in a click.
You can inspect layouts from the shell too. asylum layout list shows each preset — name, description, and the agents it races.
From a source checkout that's cargo run, dash p, cli, dash dash, layout, list. Same output.
asylum layout show swarm gives you one in full — including its resolved concurrency.
There it is: five agents, concurrency three. That means three run at once; the other two queue and launch as capacity frees. Lookups are case-insensitive, so SWARM in caps works too.
To make your own, set the layouts key in settings. Each entry has a name, a description, the agent ids, and an optional concurrency.
Tailor them to how you work. A one-agent 'quick' for routine changes. A wider 'bake-off' — five agents, concurrency two — for hard problems where you don't yet know which agent will win.
Concurrency zero defers to your global max-parallel-runs. A non-zero value overrides it for that layout — so a swarm can be wider or narrower than your global default. Omit the layouts key entirely and you keep the built-in three.
Save, and the new presets show up immediately in the picker and in asylum layout list, because settings reload live.
Launch a hard task from bake-off and watch the extras queue up. Breadth without the cost spike. Next: notes — feeding agents better context than a prompt alone.